# YuanGeTingLe - Audio Player

*You can also read a translated version of this file [in Chinese 简体中文版](README_CN.md).*

This is an audio player project based on PyQt5 and follows the MVC framework. The project was developed on Ubuntu 20.04 and supports playing songs in a specific folder, sequential playback, single-song loop, random playback, and other basic functions. Additionally, it implements the feature of variable playback speed.

- Project Repository:
- Demo Video:

## Environment Setup

Use the following commands to create the virtual environment required for the project:

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate yuanMusic
```

## Run the Project

**1. Prepare Audio Files**

You can choose to create an empty `music` folder and add audio files yourself:

```bash
mkdir music
```

Alternatively, unzip the provided sample music (popular songs by Eason Chan):

> Link: https://pan.baidu.com/s/1EG0QBhtZ_KfbkuHmxejUeA?pwd=i9pz
> 
> Extraction Code: i9pz
> 
> --Shared from Baidu Cloud Super Member V5

```bash
unzip music.zip
```

**2. Configure Audio File Types (Optional)**

Open the `src/controller/controller.py` file.

Modify the `ALLOW_VOICE_TYPE` variable to allow playing other file types. The default is:

```python
ALLOW_VOICE_TYPE = [".mp3", ".wav"]
```

**3. Launch the Audio Player**

Run the following command in the terminal to start the audio player:

```bash
python main.py
```

## Features

- **Specify Folder for Playback:** Choose a specific folder to play songs only from that folder.
- **Playback Modes:** Support sequential playback, single-song loop, and random playback.
- **Variable Playback Speed:** Provide options for variable playback speed to accelerate or decelerate audio playback.

## Usage Instructions

1. **Launch the Application:**
   - After opening the application, use the controls on the interface to select the playback mode and target folder.
   - The system will automatically detect playable audio files in the directory and display them in the list.
   - By default, the system will automatically play the first song in the playlist.

2. **Audio Playback Control:**
   - Click the play button to play and pause audio.
   - Adjust the audio playback progress easily by dragging the slider.

3. **Audio Switching and Adjustment:**
   - Use the previous and next buttons or double-click on a song in the list to switch audio conveniently.
   - Adjust loop mode and playback speed to meet personalized preferences.

4. **Exit the Application:**
   - To exit the application, simply click the close button in the upper right corner of the window.

## Directory Structure

- **doc:** Related documents
- **music:** Sample music directory
- **src:** Source code
  - **controller:** Control logic
    - `controller.py`
  - **model:** Audio model
    - `model.py`
  - **view:** Display interface
    - **UI:** UI interface generated by QtDesigner
      - `Widget.py`
      - `Widget.ui`
    - `view.py`: Personalized frontend
- `environment.yml`: Dependency installation
- `main.py`: Function entry point
- `README_CN.md`: Chinese project introduction
- `README.md`: English project introduction

## Notes

- Make sure Python 3.10 or above is installed.
- Before running the application, ensure that the environment is configured and the virtual environment is activated.

## Version Information

- Python Version: 3.10
- PyQt Version: 5.15

## Author Information

Author: `YuanGeTingLe` (CSDN/Bilibili/GitHub/WeChat Official Account with the same name)

For any questions or suggestions, please contact the author: `yuan2001425@163.com`